uh
my name's tom and i've come here
today to come clean about what i do for
money um
basically i use my mouth in strange ways
in exchange for cash
uh i usually do this kind of thing in cd
downtown bars and
on street corners so this mightn't be
the most appropriate setting
but i'd like to give you guys a bit of a
demonstration
about what i do
yes
here
oh
and now for my next number
i'd like to return to the classics
we're gonna take it back way back
back into time
all right
so thank you very much tedx
if you guys haven't figured it out
already uh my name's tom thumb and i'm a
beatboxer which means all the sounds
that you just heard
were made entirely using just my voice
and
the only thing was my voice and i can
assure you
there are absolutely
on this microphone whatsoever
and i'm very very stoked
i got some support for everything it's
great
look at this mum i made it
i'm very very stoked to be here today
you know like representing my kin folk
and all those that haven't managed to
make a career
out of an innate ability for inhuman
noisemaking
because you know it is a bit of a niche
market and there's not much work
going on especially where i'm from uh
you know i'm from brisbane which is a
great city to live in
you all right most of brisbane's here
that's good
no um you know i'm from brizzy uh which
is a great city to live in
but you know let's be honest it's not
exactly the cultural hub
of the southern hemisphere so i do a lot
of my work
uh outside brisbane and outside
australia and so the pursuit
of this crazy passion of mine has
enabled me to see
so many amazing places in the world so
i'd like to share with you
if i may my experiences
so ladies and gentlemen i would like
to take you on a journey throughout the
continents
and throughout sound itself
we start our journey in the central
deserts
india
china
hmm
germany
party party
and before we reach our final
destination ladies and gentlemen
i would like to share with you some
technology that i brought all the way
from the thriving metropolis of brisbane
uh these things in front of me here are
called
chaos pads and they allow me to do a
whole lot of different things with my
voice
for example the one on the left here
allows me
to add a little bit of reverb to my
sound
which gives me that
flavor and uh
the other ones here you know i can use
them in unison
to uh mimic the effect of a drum machine
or something like that i can sample in
my own sounds
and i can play it back just by hitting
the pads here
um
ted eggs
eggs
i've got way too much time on my hands
and last but not least the one on my
right here
allows me to loop bloop loop loop
loop loop my voice
so with all that in mind ladies and
gentlemen i would like
to take you on a journey to a completely
separate part of earth
as i transform the sydney opera house
into a smoky downtown
jazz bar alright boys take it away
ladies and gentlemen i'd like to
introduce to you a very special friend
of mine
one of the greatest double basses i know
mr smokey jefferson let's take it for a
while come on baby
hi ladies and gentlemen i'd like to
introduce you the star the show
one of the greatest jazz legends of our
time music lovers and jazz lovers alike
please give a warm hand of applause for
the one and only
mr peeping tom take it away
wow
foreign
oh
thank you thank you very much
you